when a table is bucketed on a column, then all the records with same column value will go to same bucket.
chia nhỏ các partition thành các file bucket với số lượng bucket và column bucket được chỉ định
giúp tổ chức giữ liệu tốt hơn, tăng hiệu xuất
các bucket trong cùng 1 partition có các record khác nhau
bucket là 1 file vật lý
nếu bucket theo lương, mức lương này thuộc về bucket nào sẽ được quyết định bởi 1 hashing algorithm


set hive.enforce.bucketing = true;
set hive.exec.dynamic.partition.mode=nonstrict;


create table dept_with_loc(col1 int, col2 string, col3 string, col4 int, col5 string) row format delimited fields terminated by ',' lines terminated 
by '\n' stored as textfile;

load data local inpath '/home/hive/dept_loc.txt' into table dept_with_loc;

create table if not exists dept_buck (deptno int, empname string, sal int, location string) partitioned by (deptname string) clustered by (location) into 4 buckets row format delimited fields terminated by ',' lines terminated by '\n' stored as textfile;

insert into table dept_buck partition (deptname) select col1,col3,col4,col5,col2 from dept_with_loc;


select deptno, empname, sal, location from dept_buck tablesample (bucket 1 out of 2 on location);
    it is dividing your 4 bucket into groups of 2 buckets each, and then selecting first bucket of every group. 2 buckets each means, 2 groups it will create, and select first group of these two groups. You can increase this variable to get fewer data.

select * from dept_buck limit 15;
    there is a difference between limit and table sampling on how they take out the data. Actually, limit operator does not guarantee a fashion sample. Non-fashioned as in, it can take out the data from only one partition and one bucket. That data would only be limited to that partition, that bucket, and it won't be a distributed dataset. Obviously, that cannot be considered as a sample. But table sampling, what it will do is, it will collect the data in a distributed manner from a number of buckets.

    table sampling can be done on any column, even on a non-bucketed column, but in that case, table sample clause will scan the entire table and then fetch the sample. And you know that scanning entire table takes time, so it's better to do table sampling on bucketed column, as in this case, Hive need not to read all the data to generate sample, as the data is already organized into different buckets with the bucketed column


select deptno, empname, sal, location from dept_buck tablesample (2 percent); -> đang lỗi
    This will allow Hive to pick up at least 2% of data set. It is not mandatory(bắt buộc) that it will pick exactly 2% of data, it can pick more than 2 also. This percent parameter means that Hive has to pick at least 2% of the data


select deptno, empname,sal,location from dept_buck tablesample (1M); -> đang lỗi
    This will mean that Hive has to pick at least 1 MB of data as a sample. If our table or file size is smaller than 1 MB, then it will pick whole of the file


select deptno, empname,sal,location from dept_buck tablesample (10 rows);
    this 10 means that Hive has to select 10 rows from each input split. So output count from this query will vary by number of inputs splits





